Thank
you.
to deliver the ball. And to deliver the ball by the
lawless case, the lawless case, it simply said
that here in the Congress, it was in the name of the
National Congress. But the city of Manhattan, the
National Congress being concerned at the time,
was not going to put up with the meddling of the
refugees at the state level. So the lawless case
had the effect of doing away with not only the
refugee laws, but the refugee movement as well. In
the
south of the Midwest.
And, of course, the Department's alliance . And in
1892, the Department's alliance, at least two
million members, came together in Omaha,
Nebraska. And then they organized themselves
into a national party. And they were going to . He
took a candidate
to run against the Republican and Democratic
candidates right here. So in 1892, going on out of
Nebraska, farmers' alliance comes together, and
their candidate is James Brewer. James Brewer
made the populist candidate. The farmers'
alliance, the farmers, now organize themselves
into this political party, and they call it the
political party, the populist party. The
populist party. The candidate is James Brewer.
What
do you want to tell me? When I was teaching school in
San Antonio, I had a little girl in my name by the
name of Eileen Balinski. Smartest little thing
that ever was. And I didn't connect Balinski with
anything being a Jew. It just didn't. I knew where
Belinsky's auction barn was out in the stockyards
and everything, but it didn't.
We were having a Christmas program. She said, Miss
Ava, what kind of a program are we going to have for
Christmas? I said, well, Eileen, what would you
like to have? She says, let's have Christmas in all
nations. I said, well, us being sixth graders,
that's what we're studying, every nation under
the globe, so why not? I said, that would be fine
with me. She said, can I have Israel? I said, sure.
That's what you want. And one little boy come
running up to me, and he said, can I have Austria? I
said, sure. And, you know, just one right after the
other came and asked if they could have these and
this and that. I had one little Mexican boy, and he
wanted Mexico. And I said, sure. But I said, now I
want your children to be sure and ask your parents
if this is all right when you start out. Because let
me tell you, when we start this program, there is no
two options. nations in the world that celebrate
Christmas at Christmas time, like the Americans
do. Well, their eyes got big as dollars. They
didn't know. And I said, now, not everybody
celebrates Christmas as December the 26th. And I
said, you're going to have to tell them why. You
celebrate Christmas at a certain time. And you'll
be dressed in your costumes, and you'll tell of
your foods, and you'll tell of your customs. Well,
that just tickled them to death, but they all
thought it would be December the 26th, 25th.
Finally, when they come to find out, and we got into
it, and we got to working with it, and found out the
different times that Christmas was always served
and everything, we got through this little Eileen
Balinski had brought some lemon bread with her.
and for everyone to see and to taste. And they
looked at one another, and the little boy from
Greek brought, I know, I cannot tell you the name of
the food, but it was wrapped in grape leaves, and it
was delicious. But he brought it, and we tasted it.
In fact, every country had brought something of
their own thing. And when it was all put on the table
and was served, little Eileen Balinski got up, and
she had a package in her hand. And she says, this is
for a teacher that has meant more to me than any
teacher I've had since I started this school in the
sixth grade. I opened it up. She says, I want you to
open it up and show the class. And it was, she had had
a tree planted in my memory in the forest in
Jerusalem. How beautiful. How beautiful. That's
the most wonderful thing that I can think of that
could have happened to me. A tree planted in my
memory. And I want that. I want a photostatic copy
of this thing. In the book. And I want it in the book.
It will be. Because, you know, they don't do things
unless they love you. They don't do things like
that unless they have respect for you. And then is
when I began to find out or go back and look to see.
About your grandfather Chapman? My grandfather
Chapman, all the things that he had told me that I
didn't know that was. That you were Jewish. That I
even had NG blood in me. Right. And I found that out
right quick. Isn't that nice? Yes, it was nice.
Yeah. But I didn't know it. I didn't know it when she
gave it to me. And I didn't know it until it has been
over. Well, I would say it hasn't been over eight
years ago that I found my house. And I traced it down
and found out this is how it all came about. And I
told Kitty Clyde, and she was as shocked as I was.
Because she's your cousin, right? First cousin,
and she didn't know anything about it. I love it.
Poor Kitty Clyde and her Methodism. Yeah. That's
bad business. Yeah, I know. In Texas, it is. But I
can think back. I've had a lot of good background
religious training, not knowing where it came
from. Well, I have. I know you have. And it
certainly stems from the Jewish faith. From your
grandfather. From my grandfather. I never know
him. Very adamant about it. I never mention it that
I know
of, ever. Because he was separated from them.
Yeah. And we had no connection with them
whatsoever. It was very isolated in Texas. And
very isolated. But I know one thing. When we went to
buy something, we went to Gilliman's, and we went
to Joe Cohen. So you know what that meant, don't
you? Your grandfather patronized. That's right,
and he knew exactly where to go, and we got the best
of everything. I always did. I like that. But how? I
don't know. That was good. My wedding ring was
probably two coins. On 6th Street. I know where it
is. Isn't that something? One of those things. It
sure is. Now, we've had post oaks, and that's what
these are, post oaks. We've had these and live
oaks. You see these dying through here? That's
some kind of a disease that's hitting these trees,
and we've never had it in this part of the country.
See that one? There's a dead one over yonder. We've
never had that until the last couple of years. I
don't know what the score is in this live oak. And I
don't know. I just don't know what it is that's
killing them. They say there's a blight that's
going to destroy all the oak trees. Well, there
sure are doing it fast.
Now, that's what you call scrub cedar out there.
And that's the type that we have now. When we get out
here... Well, are we going by the ranch or going
down to the Smith place? Oh, well, I guess we'll go
with both of them. I was going to say, I want to show
you some posts and that type of cedar that I was
telling you about, the tall cedar that grows up and
makes posts. In other words, they are cedar trees
much like those around Bastrop. Yes. That type of
cedar. Now, we had a good many of those along the
rivers and creeks, but where this... Scrub cedar
came from, I don't know. But anyway, we've got it.
And the next thing we have is that's taken the
country is that button willow. You see that right
out there, that stuff? Is that what that's called?
That's called button willow. Button willow. The
Indians used those buttons for cough medicine.
Oh, really? Yeah, it's down under the ground. The
willow root, they'd dig it up and use it for that.
They'd take the tops of those... and braid baskets
and things but that's called button willow but and
it sure is taking the country yeah i see that all
over and i yeah i wondered see all along here sure
and so the root has a bulb on it or uh-huh it has a
little old button huh and you boil that or whatever
for coffee they boil it up for cough medicine
They put that, well, the Americans put that, well,
they use honey. Uh-huh. That, boil that with honey
and,
well, if they got in town and could get any hooch or
whiskey, that's what they put in it. Yeah. And the
Americans used honey and alum and- Yeah. And
hooch. Yeah.
So it was just
flat land, right? Just flat land with lots of
grass, right? Yes, sir. You didn't have much of
anything. And the persimmons have come into this
country since 1940, a lot of them. Now, we had a few.
persimmon trees in our day, back in the 20s on the
ranch. That's that black persimmon, right? Yeah,
that's the black persimmon. And there were few,
but we didn't have a whole lot of them. But man
alive,
we've had algeritas a good long time. Now that's
nice. But they didn't scatter so as they do now. I
don't know why, but They just didn't take the
country over. Yeah. We'd have a few but not too
many.
Well, it is a sign of the changing soils. Oh, I'll
tell you one thing. The seasons have changed so
much. Well, they have. Tell me. Until it's just not
even like the same country. Well, let's talk about
that. We just haven't had any. Well, we didn't have
any. We went right from winter into summer this
year. We didn't have any spring. Not whatsoever to
speak of. It just went from winter to summer. And we
haven't had as hot a summer as we had last year. Not
nearly as hot. And
I don't know what to think about fall because.
That's right. I saw some red ones ready. And that's
something unusual. What is that? Being red this
time of the year. Is that so? What does that mean?
They shouldn't be ripe so soon? They should have
been ripe a long time ago. That? Yes, ma'am. Yes.
Yes, ma'am. Well, those two I just saw were just as
ripe and ready and... You want me to get out and
catch that gate? Reckon you can hold me? Sure, I
hope. I'll give it a try.
So everything's sort of late this year, right?
Yes, it is. It sure is.
Now that we're on the... This is a road down to the El
Rancho Escondido. El Rancho Escondido. That's it
in the house. Now, look at those persimmons. They
were ripe. Yeah, yeah. And these are not turning.
No, they're not. Now, there's one. There's two
ripe ones. Yeah, I see those ones. See them right up
there? I sure do. Now, you'll see the deer feeding
on those. You'll see deer feeding on those. And you
can take those and plant them yourself. And
they'll never come up. But after a deer or a turkey
eats them and germinates them, they'll come up.
And I think that's the reason we have so many of
them, because on account of the deer and the
turkey. Yeah, the deer population has just
exploded. Yeah, that's contributing to a lot. Oh,
more than anything. Cedar will not, cedarberry
will not come up unless it's germinated. And you
take the cedar robin and the goats, You turn a bunch
of goats out in the morning, that'll be the first
thing they'll do, is go and take a nip off of the
cedar if there's any around. That's just like a,
well, it's just like a dose of medicine for them.
Stimulate them, whatnot. Uh-huh.
I read an article the other day that was quite
amusing about Ethiopia.
We have very little geography on Ethiopia, and we
have very little geography on my boy's rabbit. Oh,
I thought it was, uh-huh. Something else. Yeah,
he's a big one. Yeah. And it said that... Ethiopia
had never been engaged in a war. Only within
itself. It had natural barriers. It also said it
was the oldest Jewish settlement in the world.
That I didn't know. I thought Israel was. Then to
please go back to Ethiopia.
I was just reading about that the other day. I know
that's where coffee was discovered in Ethiopia. I
didn't know that. Yeah, I know that. I just don't
know much about it, but I'm sure going to be reading
about it. We'll have to open up another door,
right? To an authority on Ethiopia. Well, I just
really enjoy knowing different things. So do I.
Yeah.
You know your land. I'll tell you that. The land
that you were born on, which is something that most
people who live on it don't know that much about it.
That's what I was going to say. You do have a
different soil. This is a lot of limestone out
here. You just wait. I'll show you. The grass is
thick. I'll show you some granite. There's
another old jackfruit. Granite gravel that you
just can't believe. The difference in the way it
looks, the way it is, the whole thing.
Okay. I know you have a crop of jackrabbits. I just
keep seeing them all over the place out here. And
that's one more good sign of a good depression. Of
what? Oh, really? A good depression. A good
depression. Okay. Jackrabbits?
Bet. Look at your buzzards yonder. Yeah, I see
them. On that cross line. Uh-huh. They roost on
there. Oh, that's funny when they do that. Yes, and
they'll be a dozen or more on each of them. There
goes the Chaparral. Chaparral, Fasano,
Roadrunner, Roadrunner, the whole bit. Oh, they
are such fine-looking birds, really. They're
aristocratic birds. They are, yes. They're
smart-sided all the time now.
Oh, there are really recent over there. There's
four on that one. And then five, six. Two on down
yonder. Yeah. And one over there. Now, they've got
this telephone line pretty well up. Mm-hmm.
Pretty well. Well, by the time we come back,
there'll be a dozen on it. Probably.
Yeah. How long has this particular ranch been in
your family then? Well, we bought it back in 1940,
and we've had it all these years. But we didn't pay
much for it when we bought it. But it took me a long
time because I was teaching about $45 a month and
finally got up to $70 a month. And in 1952, I got $100
a month. Oh my gosh, you were rolling the money. Oh
yes, I sure was. But I made use of everything I had.
Well, you've been dragging cedar down? Oh, yes.
This is to clean that around here and up and down
this road pathway so you can get in and out and know
what is going on. You know, Willie Nelson had his
first party. Yes. It was right across the river
over here. And then he had his second one while it
was over there. Now then he has it down at Pill Face,
which is down the river about five miles. Right.
And you can see over here that they're opening this
up. So that's his place over there. Yeah, across
the river. Yeah, I thought that was his ranch. And I
tell you, they're opening that up as a development
over there. Oh, pieces of Willie Nelson's ranch?
Yeah. Okay. Go out there among the beer tab cans.
Yeah. I don't know you right now. I told Gorky, I
said, I'm ready to give this one up now. I said,
we've had it. Uh-huh. Oh, this is just a beautiful
piece of land. You've got elms, and you've got oak,
and you've got... Well, I think all told, we've got
about... 12 different species of timber. Yeah.
And one of the things, I'm going to have to go down to
the library and see if I can find out what it is. I'll
tell you what, I can solve your problem. Brother
Lynch at St. Edwards University, and I haven't,
because of finances, picked you up a copy, has done
the book on the hill country flora and fauna. And
all your woods and everything from the madrone
trees on down. Well, you know you can't get one of
those madrone trees to grow. I can get you a madrone
if you want one, but they are the dickens to grow.
You just can't get them to do it. Uh-huh. I don't
know. I've never had one that you could
transplant. I've never found any roots that you
could dig up. In fact, Mrs., I just don't believe
that they can be... They are very rare trees. Oh,
well, that has to be right. You do have some out
here? Yeah. I don't know what to do with them. Lots
of them over on the Miller Creek. Yeah, I've seen
them. Look at there. Oh, darling, look at that.
You're a mama. That's a mama. Yeah, look at that.
Look at that thing. Bet you a dollar she's got some
babies. I love it. Look at that. She'll raise it a
third time. Uh-huh. If she's got babies. Almost a
94 angle. She's behind that Algeria bush.
There she is. She's got babies. Whoa, she is
pretty. You can bet that when she raised that tail,
and that was to tell them to sit still. She didn't
run. She stayed. I know. She's got to have them
somewhere around here. You bet. Nobody knows that
unless they've watched them. Uh-huh. You know
that other little bird, is it a bunting? Yeah. The
little multicolored bird? Those things are sure
pretty out here. I've seen several of those since
when we lived in the hill country. Beautiful
things.
We have some kind of analogy in this tank down here.
There's light red and I don't know what it is.
Really? Yeah. I have to send it in for
a sample. Well, I see my cows over on this side. What
are they doing down here? When they're always over
on the other side. Ava, this land is so fine.
Really, this is beautiful, Ann. This is a pretty
place. I don't care what it is. I hate to... Anybody
around here have had an archaeological dig done on
that property? I was just wondering, because I
came out and worked an archaeology dig one time out
in land that had a terrain similar to this. It was on
the other side of the Perton Alley. That's what
strikes my recollection. Oh, golly, that calf is
in the field. He sure is in the field. As a matter of
fact, there's several of them in the field. Is that
your field? Yeah. That's your plow field. Let me
catch this. He doesn't have it planted or
anything. No.
over yonder and see that house over there. Yeah.
They have a smoke coming out. They're having a
barbecue across the river. Oh at Willie's? Yep.
Well, probably Jerry Jeff and everybody else
showed up, and they didn't invite us. Aren't we
lucky? Aren't we lucky? Don't go playing. No. Ava,
that's not barbecue smoke. Oh, well, you did. All
right. I thought I'd let you know. You're just
going to kill me, huh? Right. It's just a giant
reefer, right? A giant number. Okay. All right.
We've got all of our babies. There's my little
bull. Where? Right there. Oh, wonderful. Oh, he's
looking up? That's his mama. Oh, that's his mama?
Wait a minute. I don't see little Billy. That's one
of my pets down there. I'm just going to see what I
got here. They are excited.
Well, I can't imagine him being over here. There's
a little one yonder. Oh, what a tiny cat. Yeah, he's
a little bitty tootin' by itself again. By itself,
yes. I don't know where they is. Momma's. There's
two little ones. Yeah, they're running together.
I'm going to drive down here to this place. Okay.
Ava, I never saw the hills in this particular park.
This is a beautiful area. This is a pretty place,
yes ma'am. This is the corner, far corner of Blanco
County, isn't it? Well, this right now, we're in
Hayes County. Hayes County. That's okay. We're in
Hayes. We're in Hayes. Because I want to get the
county maps. Further on down, we'll be in Travis.
That's right. You go on into Travis. We're in
Travis, Hayes, and Blanco. Yes, all three
counties.
Now, this is our water tank right up here. Uh-huh.
But I won't drive in here and see. Well, I just won't
drive in. Well, that's the best reason to do it.
Then we'd come back through the pasture. Cows,
bulls of horn, super bulls, all kinds of things.
Now, when I was a kid, we used to go to my uncle's
dairy farm, which was always a treat for me. I used
to run up and down in milk stalls. Oh, I just thought
that was the biggest tree. It's the only person
that had a place with cattle that I grew up with.
It's real nice, folks.
But not like yours.
Oh, well, it's just what you like to come down to
see. When I come out here, I feel like I died and went
to heaven. It's so quiet. Well, it is quiet. It's
peaceful. It's the earth. Down to earth. Yeah.
It's the good old earth. It is.
i think it's a pretty part of the world no doubt no
doubt
Oh, so that's the place. The house coming. That's
one of them. One of them. This is what we call the
Schmidt Place. The Schmidt Place.
S-C-H-M-I-D-T. Okay. Yeah. Das ist richtig. Das
ist richtig. Schmidt. Now look at this grass. See
what I'm telling you? Uh-huh. All right. You can
tell... It's thick. That we've got plenty of it.
Yeah, you have a lot of grass. And you just wait
until we get over there with our calves. Okay. And
I'll drive around and I'll show you the granny
gravel. Now, well, you can see it through here.
Yeah, it's red. This is a red. Yeah, all together
different. It is. This is strong grass. And
they'll range in through here all winter. And
they'll have grass. And... Well, you can tell if
this is green. And I see your cedars over there that
are trees. They are not scrub cedar. No, they're
not. They're tall and straight, almost like the
ones I saw outside of Tennessee. Yeah. See these
trees, how big they are? Yeah. The difference in
them. The size of these? Sure. And this has never
been cut off or anything. This is just the way that
it was. Now, this was her catch pin. She wouldn't
hold anything. That bull just went right over the
top of it like he did. Yeah. That's not very good.
No, it wasn't. We thought it was. Is that the river
down there? I see the cotton or sycamores coming
up. Sycamores, that's the spring. And then
further on down is our river. The Schmidt Place is
cute. I like the Schmidt Place. It's got a spring
right down there that's never been dried. You see
that cut bluff on yonder? Uh-huh. That's across
the river. Yeah. Now, this is a granite No, right
over there. We're going to drive over there. Okay.
Yeah. All right. Drive around. It's all granite
gravel territory, and we keep this feeder out
here, keep it full all the time so that the
cows will
have plenty to eat.
This is a thick, it's close to the ground grass.
What is it? This is a curly mesquite. A what? Curly
mesquite grass. You can look out there. You can
look out over your window. Look at that. Yeah. See,
it looks like it's curled up. Yeah, it does. That's
what it's called. Curly mesquite.
hugging the ground now this used to be feed crawls
those stumps sticking out there where they'd have
feet and that was a cedar picket fence see it just
barely sticking out yeah it used to be an old field
through here and that's a cedar picket fence that
held it up here's another one here well we threw
that diversion ditch up there to catch this water
and keep it from washing. Yeah, well I see the
spider webs by the way on the grass. We're not going
to have any rain for a while either, I guarantee you
that.
Well there's, now this land is different from the
land up near Johnson City. Yes ma'am, it sure is.
Quite a bit different. Oh you got a barrel cactus
out there, the prettiest little thing. We've got
that big. Really? We've got a lot of them. Do you?
I'm not familiar with the prickly pear out here,
but I haven't seen that many of them. Yeah, we've
got lots of them. Now, this was just a perfect bed of
bluebonnets at one time. But we haven't had any
great big lot of them. Well, we had a good many of two
this year. But when we had sheep and goats, we just
ate them up. Now, this is the... Look at the
turkeys. Wild turkeys, Ava. Yes, those are wild. A
whole flock. There's what? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 12, 13, 14, here's five more over here.
Ava, that is a find. They're not wild. They're not
wild. See, they're not running. They're not
running. No, they're not. They are beautiful.
That's a big bunch of them. That sure is. I've never
seen that many together. Oh, I love my turkey
thumbs. Watch them. Oh, they're running on down.
Yeah, definitely. Yeah, they took on down the
hill. But this is your granite gravel, and this is
where... You remember him talking about...
That holler? Yes, the holler. I have it written
down. Blocker holler? Blocker holler. Right here
we are. Okay, that's blocker holler. I now know
where blocker holler is. Isn't that something?
And he ran. Yeah. There's his Spanish hopes.
There's his thicket down there. I can see it. I can
see it. I tell you right now, hearing him talk about
that, knowing how it all happened, you know, it's
worth a lot to know where you are. But I've enjoyed
it. I enjoy it, Roy. I enjoy it all. It's good for
talking to him. Sure. But this is a... Boy, they're
all going back over on the other side. I can't
understand a word.
I knew you brought me. I said, thank you. You
brought me in there playing shy for you today. Oh,
shoot. I can roll this down. They'll come right out
here before you can turn around. But I just came
down. Now there's a spring right down there, and it
runs the year round. I see. How many springs do you
have on the place? We have three. And they don't
have to go very far for water anywhere. Like I say,
this is one beautiful piece of land. It is a good
piece of land. It is pretty. There's your barrel
cactus again. Aren't they pretty? There's a bunch
over there. They really are pretty. I'm just
surprised to see them. Pretty red ones. Red
blooms. There's a bunch over there. I'm just
amazed because I'm just not used to seeing them. We
have them here. You do have them here. It's sort of
an isolated little place for them like that.
We've got lots of grasshoppers, too. Yeah, I
noticed you had your share of grasshoppers right
now. That's what the turkeys like. Uh-huh.
Now, you see how green this grass is? Yeah, I do,
yeah. And you've got plenty of it. Yeah, they could
feed a long time out here. We've got plenty to feed
on. Well, we have 40 head of cattle and we've got 400
acres, so they each can have it. Right. We've got
enough. I think so. Well, that catch tank doesn't
have any water in it. That's all right, too.
This is a beautiful piece of land. This is pretty.
You bet. Oh, gosh. Well, this guy out in Houston
offered us $850 an acre for it. Really? I hope
you're going to hold on to it. Well, I certainly am.
Ten times more than that. Well, it's worth it to me
just to get right over and look at it. Sure. Well,
it's the kids, too. There's not a penny on it. Why
sell it? Of course not. The government would get
half of it. Oh, heavens, yes. And I don't see any
sense in it. No, no, no, no. But as I say, this is the
kids' land, too. You bet it is. And they love it.
They enjoy it. And it would be a shame that anything
should ever have to... That's the thing I always
wanted was to own land in the hill country. Enough
simply to drive on it when I felt like it. But to come
out and know that you can share part of the quality
of it. Too many things happen to a person. Already
we've seen rabbits, and road runners, and wild
turkeys, and we haven't been here, what, 15
minutes? That's right. But you and Jillian. Yeah.
You really do. Barrel of cactus. Barrel of cactus.
Know that the springs are there, and the sycamore
trees, and... Oh, that was growing up fine from it.
It's a beautiful land. I think it is. I'll get me
some one of these days. You've got these little,
what do you call them? Daggers. Little daggers,
yeah. Spanish daggers. Right.
Remnants of earlier days. That's right.
Beautiful.
Is that a peach tree? That's a peach tree. It keeps
the deer from getting it, but they get it. That's
great. Now I bet that grew from somebody's picnic.
That's the only way a peach tree are dismissed.
Those white daisies are nice. I think they're
pretty.
Now we saw one part of this country. We're going to
go this way down the river. I see the kids are in the
road. Oh yes.
Now what is this, what are they? They're Brehmer
and... This is Brehmer and Angus cows. Brehmer and
Angus, okay. And I see is that your white... No,
there's no bulls here. Yeah? These are all babies.
Yeah, I see it. No bulls, right? No bulls. That's
your cow right there, the one that was in the
picture. No. No? Neither of those. They're
pretty. Gosh, they're beautiful animals. They
are pretty. There's the two baby calves. Yeah.
Nice.
When they brought the Brema into this part of the
country, what was that like? Oh, boy, it was a
regular rebellion. People just thought we were
crazy as the devil when we first came in here. I
guess it led us back about the first Bremas we had
here, of course, was back in 1939,
1940.
And we started the herd down in the city. Yeah,
they are down there.
Yeah. Well, I know they did that. And what's the
other, there's another African breed that they
brought in. I'm trying to think of what that one
was. Well, now, they have them. There are two
different species of breamers. One is the
Guzzerat and the other is the Zebu. The Zebu has a
long keen body and the Guzzerat is more or less
stocky-billed.
Well, my little bull's not bearing up. I see some
over here coming. Yonder's my big bull. Yeah, I
see. I can't think that two of the prettiest bulls
you've ever looked at. I don't care what anybody
says. They're big from here, so they've got to be
big when we get to them. Now, you see, right here is
Brush Harbor. And this was on the roads, the old
Austin Road. This is right here. And let me see if
you can see the well right over there. Uh-huh. Hand
dug well. You see it right there? Yes, I sure do. The
old rock around it. Yeah, you see that supposed to
be the bucket thing that hung up on it? That's,
well, it looks like a cross. Well, that was it. And
they would get five cents a bucket for the water for
their horses. Oh, my gosh. That's right, right
there. Some unusual plants growing over there,
Ava. Well, that's a spice tree or a pepper tree. Is
it? It's a pepper tree. That's right. And it's...
Now that's a tank. Yeah. And this is where the
old... You heard him talk about Old Man Lawson?
Yeah. All right. This is the old Lawson place right
here. And this is one we've got the land grant on.
Oh, yes. I've seen that land grant. I saw you open
that up and show it to Carkey right when you had it.
You see this grass, how pretty and green? Yeah, so
delicate, so soft. All right. I used to make many a
bed out of this fresh green grass, that color. Oh,
yeah. Remember? Playing in it. But it's because I
grew up around David Long, so that's it. Well.
They're working on the barn? Yeah, they're going
to finish building it one of these days. One of
these days. Well, now here's a little log cabin and
here's the chimney and a trailer. And a trailer,
that's right. Yeah, we're going to have to come out
here and stay and watch the sunset. Okay. That's
what I wanted to do the other time. And you see that
old
fireplace? Yeah. It's put together with red.
Clay. Yeah, I see it. And plain old grass and chips.
That's not put together with concrete. Yeah,
clay. Yeah. And grass. Sure. Yeah. Now, does that
chimney draw us better? Oh, boy, it sure does. I bet
it does. And that was the smokehouse. OK. And it's
still there. And of course, we tore that old house
down. Sure. Wow, this is really nice. Here they
come. Oh, look at them. I believe we won't move down
forever since he's coming up here. Okay. I'll just
move back up here. Hey, that's the biggest bull
I've ever seen. Both
of them. Oh, my goodness.
Yeah,
this is beautiful land. I'll have to listen to when
you
call them, okay? That was sick. Yeah. Come on,
cowboy! Well, come on. Are my babies hungry? Bless
their hearts. Come on, little man. I didn't love
you yesterday. Well...
Well, hello, Slim Jim. Oh, yes, they're all just so
glad to see mommy.
Well, come on. Come on. What about that one? Come
on, little
boy. Come on. Well, mommy knows you're hungry.
Come on, little bull. Come on,
little bull.
Come on. Well, now, listen.
I just don't like for you to run him off just because
you don't want him here. Now, how's that? That's
big. Whoa, I've never seen one like that. This
is the one that weighs 70. Is this the new one? No,
okay. This is the one we raised. This is the one we
raised.
This is the one we raised. And that
was a little girl. Aren't
they
sweet, though? I like that expression, Ava. What
do you call that? Little bull, what are you doing?
You didn't come over here. Mommy didn't get... Oh,
you've got old ants on you. Let them stand.
Ladybug!
Oh, come on. That's a little bull. That little
bull. Mommy's going to take him to town. You bet she
is. You're going to graze in the yard, right? Just
going to stage him in the yard. That's a good one.
Ain't that sweet? Oh, he's a nice one. Yeah. Look at
that. He'll turn around and see me, but listen,
he'll come back. Mm-hmm. But isn't he pretty? And
you see why I don't want to get rid of him? Yeah.
Listen to him. And that one over there, just hear
him roar, and he wants somebody to love him, and I
just can't make up my mind. He's a big old thing.
Just
getting
to you,
huh?
Isn't that a pretty thing? Yeah. This little tap
right here? Yeah. Yeah, that's a beautiful color.
I'll tell you what. What? I've got another little
bull. Come here. Come on. Come on over here, little
bull. He's up for you. Come on. Hurry up. Uh-uh.
Little bull, don't do that. I don't want you in my
car. Come on, fella. You haven't helped me look.
Come on. Come on. Hurry up. I don't have time. You
see this? Yeah, another one. Just all you have to do
is come on. I don't have time. Come on over here.
Let's get out of those ants. Come on. Well, come on.
Well, all right. He's a little scared. No? No. He's
got other things on his mind. Oh, he does. He's
growing these days. This one wants to be friendly
right here. Now, you won't believe it. Do you see
this cow right here? Yeah. Oh, she's 20 years old.
Oh, my heavens. That's right. She looks good. Sure
she looks good. All right, here's her calf right
here. This one? Okay. That's a good calf. That's a
good calf, right? Now, to me, I hate to say it, but
she's in good shape and has a good calf. Yeah. But
she's 20. 20 years is old enough for anybody, so you
just will get rid of it. And that old, that one right
over yonder? Mm-hmm. She's 18. Come on, Ladybug.
Come on, Ladybug. I haven't loved you yet. You see
this black face one? Yeah, she's the one with the
black eyes. Listen, this one over here is back from
mowing. That's a good boy. Yeah, that is a good
calf. A 20-year-old mom. I got fingernails,
fella. You're going to get
your neck scratched. Yeah. Oh, I love his ears. But
you know, that one's got... What? It's hard to say.
It's got something under its... Uh-huh. But I
guess that's that feed. Yeah. Oh, shoot. Is this
just... Well, I've got all kinds of nuisance. You
sure do. Well, let's go up to the house. Okay. I
don't want to be a traitor. I
tell you, he's a toughy. How old is this white brain
man right there? He's six. He's six.
Well, Cynthia, I don't care. You, you. If you have
to come out here and you can see it. But you know,
people won't believe it. I believe you, Ava. I
believe it. All these bramas are your friends. You
have me convinced. They don't, too. They're my
friends, too. Me pet them. Yeah. They really like
that petting now. They really do. And everybody
says that you can't get near a brama like that.
Yeah. But that's not so. That sure isn't safe. No.
Uh, tall boy, you're not coming in the house,
that's all. Okay. Well.
The food's a little bit warm in here, but who
doesn't have an air conditioner? Oh, this is
comfortable. Would be. Sure. Sure. I see that
quirky has made up in the bed. We don't put sheets or
anything on. Well, no, not until we get ready to use
them. Right. Here's the washer. Oh, it's just as
nice a place as any. And this is his bed back here.
See the clothes? Yeah. That's his room thing.
Well, we got three bed, three. We got three
bedrooms. Well, anyway, this is the perfect place
to spend some time. I told you. I tell you, I should
have rented this place to write the book. I believe
so. I may have to do that. We'll call it Paisano,
isn't that what Dobie's Ranch is called? Yeah, the
Paisano? Yeah, that's what we'll do. Sure. I like
your ashtray. I made that. I was just going to ask
you. Now, that's a good one. Freshwater clam
shells, right?
Well, they are really friendly, friendly
grandma's and friendly animals, friendly
animals.
I remember you wrote me in your letter about coming
out here and finding the calf with the infected
navel. And then how you used the old remedy rather
than
an injection on it. Just muddied him up.
Well, I've done a lot of things in my day.
I
don't know. I don't regret any of it, though. It's
all been worth it so far as I'm concerned. I've had a
happy life and a hard life. Well, your life has been
constant in one way, whereas I think nowadays
people don't find that to be an occurrence. Life
just simply isn't constant. It's fragmented.
You've always had the ranch. You've always had
cattle. That's right. You've always had that to
fall back on. You knew yourself. Listen, the thing
of it is
there has never been a time in my life that I haven't
had an extra job to do. Whether it was teaching
school at that particular time and working at the
garage or whether it was working here at the place,
I've always had plenty to do all my life.
Old Cork's got this pretty well cleaned up and
fixed up. Yeah, he's a pretty good housekeeper.
I'll get all this straight right here. Now
this is really comfortable. I don't know where
these go.
Oh, isn't that sad to hear that kind of call? That's
the call of the wild.
Uh-huh. So did you tell me how old the White Bramer
is? You said he was about six? Yes, the White Bramer
is six years old. He's six years old. Yeah. And he
weighs about how much? That White Bramer weighed
1740. And that old tall boy, you said that's the
biggest thing? That's the biggest thing I've ever
seen. I believe. I don't know. I don't know
exactly. I don't have any idea. But I would say that
he will come nearer when 1800
than you will anything. Yep, he's big. Well, you
ready to go? All right. Would you like a cold beer
before we leave? Well, if you'd like to, we'll
break one out. We can go back with one out of hand. We
got here with one. We can't let Willie Nelson party
alone, can we? Oh, my gosh.